{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24000\viewh9760\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here we describe our analysis of prokaryotic OTU overlap between samples of animal gut microbiota, originating from individual animals of different genera. We used the 16S rRNA sequencing dataset described by Song et al (2020). This dataset updates the Earth Microbiome Project dataset (release #1 )(Thompson et al. 2017) with additional samples from vertebrate hosts for a total of 460 host species in 374 genera, mostly of birds and mammals. \
\
Details concerning the sampling, DNA extraction, PCR, sequencing and processing can be found in Song et al (2020) and follow the Earth Microbiome Project protocol (Thompson et al. 2017). Briefly, the V4 region of the 16S rRNA was amplified using the 515f/806r EMP primers and amplicons were sequenced on Illumina (MiSeq and HiSeq) platforms. Because the dataset bySong et al (2020) originates from several studies, each respective dataset was processed in the same way to produce an OTU table. Here, we did not used the raw fastq files but instead used the processed OTU tables produced by Song et al (2020) from the reads trimmed at 90pb. Those table are provided on the Qiita website (see details below).  In the pipeline by Song et al (2020), reads were quality-filtered, checked against the Greengenes database to remove artifactual sequences, and sequencing errors were removed using the deblur algorithm 
\f1 (Amir et al., 2017)
\f0 , yielding amplicon sequence variants (ASVs, i.e. OTUs clustered at 100\\% sequence similarity). \
The resulting ASV tables are publicly available and were downloaded from the Qiita website (https://qiita.ucsd.edu/study/description/11166) with Qiita biom table IDs being 93862,93855,93819,93914,93900,93846,93851 and 94483. Metadata are available for download as supplemental material of Song et al (2020) (DATA SET S1) (https://mbio.asm.org/content/mbio/11/1/e02901-19/DC1/embed/inline-supplementary-material-1.xlsx?download=true).\
\
Using the publicly available OTU tables and the publicly available metadata, we estimated the OTUs (16S clustered at 100\\% similarity) overlap between samples of animal gut microbiota, originating from individual animals of different genera. The R code that we used to produce these overlap estimates process from the publicly available data is provided here. \
\
We processed as follow: first, we assigned taxonomy to the ASVs using the RDP classifier and the SILVA v132 database and removed ASVs identified as Chloroplasts or Mitochondria. Second, we merged the ASV tables downloaded from the Qiita website and randomly selected one sample per host species. Third, we rarefied the data to 5000 reads per sample. Fourth, we computed overlap between samples using the presence/absence-based Jaccard metric.\
\
References\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 Song, S. J., Sanders, J. G., Delsuc, F., Metcalf, J., Amato, K., Taylor, M. W., ... & Knight, R. (2020). Comparative analyses of vertebrate gut microbiomes reveal convergence between birds and bats. MBio, 11(1).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Amir\'a0A,\'a0McDonald\'a0D,\'a0Navas-Molina\'a0JA,\'a0Kopylova\'a0E,\'a0Morton\'a0JT,\'a0Zech Xu\'a0Z,\'a0Kightley\'a0EP,\'a0Thompson\'a0LR,\'a0Hyde\'a0ER,\'a0Gonzalez\'a0A,\'a0Knight\'a0R.\'a02017.\'a0Deblur rapidly resolves single-nucleotide community sequence patterns.\'a0mSystems\'a02:e00191-16.\'a0doi:10.1128\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 Thompson, L. R., Sanders, J. G., McDonald, D., Amir, A., Ladau, J., Locey, K. J., ... & Knight, R. (2017). A communal catalogue reveals Earth\'92s multiscale microbial diversity.\'a0Nature,\'a0551(7681), 457-463.\
\
}